# o3o debugger

This is a [Ratatui] app generated by the [Simple template].

[Ratatui]: https://ratatui.rs
[Simple Template]: https://github.com/ratatui/templates/tree/main/simple

## Usage

To run the debugger locally,

```
cargo run <path_to_vcd>
```

This will actually search in multiple places and add the `.vcd` extension if it doesn't exist; for example

```
cargo run rob
```

will try to find `rob.vcd` or `build/rob.vcd`.

## Contributing

The code here is admittedly not great. However, here is a brief description of the repository structure:

- `src/main.rs` is the entry point of the program, and is the first thing called. Initializes the Ratatui app as well as argument parsing and logging setup.
- `src/app.rs` is where most everything is; the implementations here describe how the main app functions and renders things.
- `src/snapshots.rs` is where the logic for parsing, storing, and handling queries to the vcd file is. It defines a `Snapshots` struct, which stores objects that hold the values of every variable at every point in time. It also stores an index that keeps track of which snapshot is currently shown, and defines where helper functions like `get_var` get their values from.
- `src/var_index.rs` defines a struct which parses all the variables in a header and stores them in an index object for quick lookup and fuzzy search.
- `src/structures` defines the various tables for the different data structures we define in the processor (ROB, RS, etc.), and the top-level module defines how to render these/initializes them.

## Building

> Disclaimer: This guide is for Apple Silicon Macs (tested on M3 MacBook Air). If you have a different system, you will need to find out how to cross compile to x86 Linux.

To cross-compile to CAEN, you will need to install the rust tool chain for targeting Linux:

```
rustup target add x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu
```

You will also need to install a linker for x86_64:

```
brew install SergioBenitez/osxct/x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu
```

Then, you can run the compilation command:

```
TARGET_CC=x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu cargo build --release --target x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu
```

To transfer to CAEN:

```
scp target/x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu/release/debugger <your uniqname>@login.engin.umich.edu:~/eecs470/p4-w25.group1
```

Remember to change the username and path for your CAEN credentials and desired path!

## To-do

- figure out how to layout multiple tables when we run out of area
- figure out how the debugger will detect what modules are present
